Open source, free to modify

many OS's utilize the Linux Kernel, which is based on the Unix Kernel

generally inside it is "package manager" (download), int system (running?) GNU tools, libraries, documentation, ect.
available as source code, binaries, ect. Some might have propiatary code, but...

some major distributions are Debian, Ubuntu, Fedora, Redhat...

Made by Linus Torvalds made the Kernal
And, effect "Linux is an interface between hardware and software"

When Linus was in school, they where useing MINIX.
He kept asking for some improvments (and others), but the developer Andrew Tanuabam.
	The idea of asking for improvmovments and feedback was not a new concept. Richard Stalman of MIT had been advocating the idea of useing feedback ("free software", not meaning 0 cost, meaning "open source"). MIT disagreed and he left in 1984, and he made GNU, linus wants to do the same thing with an OS.

	By OS, this means is a kernel. for an itallian restaurant, if you order a pasta dish, the Kernel is the pasta, the most noticible, all-encompassing thing
Linus Torvalds made the kernel, but had no programs. Stalman had programs but no OS. Both where usless on their own... but combined became Linux
Linus said "are you without a nice project and dying to cut your teeth on an OS you can try to modify your needs? this post might just be for you!"

Those people helped modify it, but it never really became popular besides those "gurus". Linux had no guide, other OS's did. Nover very useful

However, some people took Linux and designed it to be easier to set up. However, it's still somewhat complex, and many people who describe it haven't used it.
However, price wise, it's second to none! 0$, vs a hundred, or subscriptions...



Nitrux: 
pros: very easy, uses "app images", stable
cons: not well documented


Ubuntu: very easy setup, Appstore, desktops

zorin OS:
similar to windows
layout switcher
tailored documntation

cons: older computers will struggle to run anything but the lite version

variant of uubuntu
pro-edition that does cost money, exclusive features

Pop!_OS
good for gameing
hybrid graphics, special nvidia drivers
keyboard navigatation

Rocky Linux: 10 year support

Ubuntu Server
benifits of ubunt, but server based

Kodachi
Best for pricacy, can be used as a daily driver, connects through VPN, ubbuntoo, "panic features" like a nuke passcode to encrypteverything

Rescatux
custom recap, designed for inexperienced, lots of documentation

miseeing some normal Linux stuff.

useful for repairing files

Parrot OS, good for forensic/ pen testing

lots of tools, categorized menues, encrypted persistence

interestingly, designed to also be useful for most users that want a secure and privacy-focused distro

Open Media Vault is a debian-based that's good to convert old unused computer (or even a rasbary pi) into NAS

Porteus:
fast bootup, multiple desktops, persistant sessions. runs fully off of thumdrive
unninutitive

manjaro
based on linux-arch
attempts to take it's negatives by:
customized installer, ready to use, several edditions

puppy Linux
designed for older hardware, multiple versions, lots of apps, good to ressurct and re-use ancient computers