history of macOS

1981- color

first major: 2001, A.K.A. Cheeta
	beta was kodiack
128 MB of RAM and 800 MB of disck space

10.1.1- Puma, mostly performance
with version 10.2, they ship every update with 10.2

Jauguar, adds iChat, universal acces (accessibility), replaces the logo (the "happy mac" to the "new, fruity Icon")

October 2003: panther, 10.3
improvments to compat, added expose to improve multiple applications
replaced explorer with safari

Tiger (205, 10.4)
introdunce widgets, first with intel processors, which where also on the apple TV which was 2 years later (so not surprising)

Leopard 10.5, longest time between updates (2007, first iPhone 
included built in backup system, (time machine), also brought ful 64-bit support
can now use "boot camp" to run other operating systems

Snow lepard, 10.6
this one was built mainly on it's predeesor, introduced Mac App Store (inspired by the I-phones store), also removed compat with pre-tiger computers

Lion (1.7)
First without a DVD or CD download, inspired by IoS
introduces many IoS features like Gestures, Launchpad, window restoring...
iCloud

Mountain Lion (2012) (it's a canine, so...), primarily bugfix, transfer in Reminders, Notifications, Messages replaces apple chat. before releasing it, promised to release 1 major update a year

10.9 (and all following ones, so they promised), added maps and ibooks. Broke patten, now california landmarks. This one was Yosemitie
Overhauled UI to match iOS, added handoff to allow moveing things between devices, added in full screen mode, green button

10.11, El Capitan (main feature of the national park). Added in split views (multiple applications), which windows already had

Siera, (related to siera nevada)
now just MacOS, remove version added siara and Siri, introduces aple pay and apple whatch


High Siera (part of Siera, probally with a higher altitude). Improvments to the files, and HEVC. Changed ui color. 2017, better file system

Mojave, updates ui. Dynamic desktop (alters based on time), added dark mode improvments to Find and FaceTime, brings over the News Apps, Stocks, Home, and Voice Memos from iOS

Catalina, 2019
cleans up iTuns, seperates it into Music, Podcasts and TV

transfer in the Ipad closer to the Catalyst framework, and the Sidcar allows you to use your iPad as a second display for your Apple Mac

Big sur (mountain on Catalina?)
Formally moved away from 10. Now it's 11.0, rounded edges, improved messages with groups (for instance "@")

Montery (2021, height of pandemic). Came out with lots of communication features due to lockdown, added Spacial Audio, allows SharePlay to watch moves and TV with others, portrait mode blurs background, tighter integration, universal control, a single mouse, trackpad, and keyboard between multiple apple devices. 

Ventura update (2022). New multitasking featue (stage manager), grouping apps together. Continuity Camera, allowing iPhone as webcam, spotline has quick look and quick actions, as well as internet compat. schedule mail and such

Sonoma update, removes "hey siri", now siri. Interactive widgets, moveable. Game porting toolkit (metal), to minimize porting from macOS to others, add website to their dock, notebook supports linked notes and 
adds user profiles and groups, icloud keychain now allows you to make groups of passcodes

2024, Sequoia, added Apple Intelligence, siri better understands mumbles, image playground and genmojies, cross platform passwords, better writing tools, miring to control iPhone from your mac even if phone is locked.