at least in theory, can caffine aid in "stabilizing" circadian rythym?
I know with many people it helps them wake up, with a good amount of people it does the opposite, it's both a migraine trigger, and a migraine preventative/ med (sometimes both, in the same person, on the same day. Or even at the same time... (I should know...))

But, like any med that effects things like energy and mood, it blocks some neurotransmitters, causing you to form new extra.
Now, in theory, those "extra" might be a more "stable" amount, so perhaps a lot of people have too many or too few, thus causing insomnia or exhastion. But the caffine, no matter it's main effect, leads also to new ones that are closer to the average every time? If so, my guess for the reason is geneticly we try to form "x". But, As the brain forms, it just tries to sorta jam them in where it can. Sometimes that means less are put, sometimes it means it puts extra.
But, caffine tricks the brain into re-makeing them, aiming for the target "x" of functional ones. As the brain, while always changgeing, is now at least not growing (something about humans starting as a single cell...), the margin of error becomes smaller?

So, how right is that effect (the stabilized circading rythyms)? What about the theory as to why? (and even if I'm wrong about the effect, what kind of stuff in that theory is right? wrong? ect)
P.S. Can you tell that something involving caffine happened to me recently?
Now, please read this paragraph after you answered the question that followed the P.S. Okay, answered? Now:
P.P.S. I stopped coffee for almost a week due to a weird migraine that for some reason, despite my normal "definitly drink coffee if I have a migraine", lead to me saying "no coffee". And, once done, I had just the normal caffine withdrawl stuff (insomnia, exhastion, ect.) But, the exact resaon (that neurotransmitter), combined with the fact that I used to be almost unable to wake up, made me wonder if perhaps the coffee was part of it... (granted, I started being able to get up before I started coffee, but, it could be a contributing factor. Or it could not. Either way, that's where this thought started from)