identifying printer issues:
easiest way to determine it is if you know the symptoms, as then you can narrow it down.
	Sometimes an error message will be provided, sometimes it will even be useful

a common symptom is "weird noise"
	clicking, grinding, whirring; often mechanical things

Pages not fully completly, probally low ink
if quality keeps randomly changeing, probally a driver or such

if you know what your looking at, even if you don't fully understand how to fix it, if you know more, it will help others troubleshoot...
connectivity issues;
more prevelant, difficulties with wi-fi, usb, ethernet, being on...
weak signals hinder connectivity
physical obstructions can case issues
also needs to be on the right wi-fi. If disconnected, re-type it
if blutooth, make sure it's paired.
try disconnecting and re-connecting. Or, just cycle it

if local, check cable, check it's plugged in, check other ports, clean plugs...

you can try windows troubleshooter, but it's kinda not useful...

check that it's detected as a printer... is it is, you can try forgetting and re-connecting.
Paper jams; the soloution is simple, unjam it.
The execution, not so much. It can be in the;
Input Tray
Output Tray
and between 0 to 5 internal locations
	and they vary from "move one thing" to "basically disassemble it"
also check for compatibility of the paper, both material (cardstock? photo paper? wrong size?), and other stuff.

Don't yank the paper out, can cause damage. Pull it gently, and some printers have a mechanisim to manually move it.
cleaning it also helps.
ink
for ink, you can check it, use compatible cartridges. Replacing cartriges is simple
	sometimes this won't auto-update ink levels
printing with low ink can cause, well, issues...
print quality:
random lines for no apparent reason, faded, blurry, ect.
check ink, checking paper, check quality, make sure settings are good.
clogged print head, so you might need to align and clean. Often done through the printer itself
an error is the ultimate (and rarest) help
 for instance "paper jam", means, well, paper jam.
Out of ink? well... duh

on some printers they even give on screen instructions!

compatability: the bane of every software developers existance.
in-compatible printers will, well... have fun

sometimes you may need a software. Not driver, software

maintnence
run alignments and cleaning
use microfiber on scanner
run updadates
dust