RAID

Redundant Array; Independant Disck
it uses multiple discks as one disck, to allow the storing of data redundantly

it is used to make data more redundant

unlike JBOD (Just a bunch of discks). Acording to the computer, a RAID will look like one hardrive, whereas JBODS are multiple hardrives, and seen that way by the computer.

Unlike JBOD, RAID makes data more redundant

Parts:
The controller, which is what makes the computer see it as 1 volume, and manages the backup

2 main types; Hardware, and Software. Hardware ones are more reliable
an example is a "PERC" card
Software ones are based on programs, meaning no hardware. It's more configurable and easy to use. But it relies on the CPU/ RAM
Firmware based RAID is built into most BIOS/ UEFI systems, operating on vender-level scale. You may need specific drivers, but

There are many types and features

some terms:

Data Striping:
can read in parallel, stores every other piece of information, no fault tolerance

Mirrioring: stores a copy of all information on 2 drives, this means no extra space, but perfect copy

Parity: you loose more like 1/3 of all the capacity. Instead of duplicating data, it uses a "parity block" to allow recreation of lost data

3 Main categories:

Standard-
- Raid 0: uses Striping to just split the data
1-(1-AFR_singleDisck)^numberOfDiscks
	1 disk failure will loose all data, and as more disks are more fault points, the equation above shows how more drives is a higher average failure rate
- Raid 1: direct mirroring. That means it's as if you have half the capacity. Reading is faster as you have 2 cpies to read in parallel. Write speed is identical

- Dead Standard:(outdated)
	Raid 2: bit-level striping with ...
	Raid 3: used byte levek striping and parity
	Raid 4: used block level striping with dedicated parity
Raid 5: uses block-level striping with distributed parity blocks, meaning it doesn't need a hardrive dedicated to parity. It has better performance, if you loose 1 hard rive, the data is retrievable but performance suffers. Loose 2 hard rives, and, well, data's gone. Minimum of 3 discks, maximum of 16

Raid 6: same, but 2 parity blocks, so can withstand 2 failed drives

Non-Standard-
Hybrid- 
Raid 10: combines multiple Raid 1's, and then a Raid 0. Raid 100 is putting that on another raid 0