Ram like capaciter

data charges capaciter
as time goes by batteries loose charge, or, in this case, data
while on, send constant stream of power, without that, data degrades rapidly

ROM
read only
"permanent"
like battery, needs some power to retain information, but only to re-charge the passive discharge, so it uses less power.

Only 

CMOS battery

S-Ram
D-Ram

static ram
dynamic ram

s-ram is for cacheing, which is able to be stored longer durations
d-ram is "slower", used for most data

PROM- programable read-only memory. Can write (to install a bios). Can read it, but once there it can't go
	CD Rom. Data is physically embedded (literally burned in)
EPROM- Erasable Programable Read-Only Memory. Can be erased using UV, then written to again
	Boot Drive, parts of BIOS, magnetic tapes
EEPROM- can be erased electronically, not just UV.
	USB's

DIMM
	Dual Inline Memory Modual- 64 bit bandwith, with 168, 184, 240, 288
		typically increased with version DIMM 1 had 168, DIMM 2 had 184

SIMM- Single Inline Memory Module
	Older technology

RIMM
	rambus inline memory module

DRAM- Dynamic RAM
	Operates asyncronusly with the system clock, making it slower. Coud be 30 seconds vs. 60 seconds. It would have to wait until CPU is ready. It might also be offset, so RAM starts, then CPU, and it has to paus

SDRAM-
	operates synchronously with system clock, making it not have to pause, and thus faster

DDR- different versions of DIMM
	Each DDR doubled about it could be fetched

SIMM-
	1 bit (kinda DDR0)
DDR1- 2 bits
DDR2- 4 bits

clock speed second- Mhz = 1 million instructions per second
Ghz= 1B instructions per second

multitasking as we think of it isn't possible (for humans nor computers)
Path width- how much data can be transferred in a clock cycle

Number of cores is like refresh rate vs. resoloution
with screens, refresh rate is best (you don't notice the difference between resoloutions after a certain point, but refresh rate is still noticeable)

with cores, higher clock speeds makes it process faster, number of cores allows more processing. More cores allows more intensive stuff (so for something like video editing, the calculations are harder, and more cores is nice), but clock speed makes more clock speed allows "resoloution"

ultimately, cores will typically have a bigger influence.